tech.md, before:

# Frontend

## Language

-   Javascript ES6 (AKA ES2015) with JSX and some ES7 extensions (particularly decorators for use by React DnD)
    -   [Learn ES2015](https://babeljs.io/docs/learn-es2015/)
-   [Babel](https://babeljs.io/) compiler to convert to ES5 that browsers can understand

## Frameworks

-   [React](https://facebook.github.io/react/)
    -   [Thinking in React](https://facebook.github.io/react/docs/thinking-in-react.html)
-   [Redux](http://redux.js.org/)
-   [React DnD](http://gaearon.github.io/react-dnd/) (drag and drop)

## Components and styles

-   [React-Bootstrap](https://react-bootstrap.github.io/)

## Build/Dev infrastructure

-   [Webpack](https://webpack.github.io/) Module Bundler
-   [NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/) for package managment and script running
    -   see [package.json](file:package.json)

#   Backend

## Language

-   Python 3 (unless we run into a requirement that is only available for Python 2).

## Frameworks

-   [Django](https://www.djangoproject.com/)

Commit message:

actions and reducer for receiving a file list.
Includes mocha tests.

tech.md, after:

# Frontend

## Language

-   Javascript ES6 (AKA ES2015) with JSX and some ES7 extensions (particularly decorators for use by React DnD)
    -   [Learn ES2015](https://babeljs.io/docs/learn-es2015/)
-   [Babel](https://babeljs.io/) compiler to convert to ES5 that browsers can understand

## Frameworks

-   [React](https://facebook.github.io/react/)
    -   [Thinking in React](https://facebook.github.io/react/docs/thinking-in-react.html)
-   [Redux](http://redux.js.org/)
    - redux-api-middleware for HTTP calls
    - redux-actions for simplifying and standardizing Redux actions and reducers
-   [React DnD](http://gaearon.github.io/react-dnd/) (drag and drop)

## Components and styles

-   [React-Bootstrap](https://react-bootstrap.github.io/)

## Build/Dev infrastructure

-   [Webpack](https://webpack.github.io/) Module Bundler
-   [NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/) for package managment and script running
    -   see [package.json](file:package.json)

#   Backend

## Language

-   Python 3 (unless we run into a requirement that is only available for Python 2).

## Frameworks

-   [Django](https://www.djangoproject.com/)
